>> Kyle Simpson: Let's talk about
the solution to exercise three.
In the read me it says
we need to define and
compose that takes any number
of functions and then a pipe.
So basically you only need
to solve this once and
then do the reverse for the other one.
Solve pipe first and do compose or
the other way around.
Let's try that out.
Let's try to make our own.
I'm gonna implement pipe first.
And the way I'm gonna do it as that you
expect to pass in individual functions,
the way I've got listed
on line line 11 and 12.
So I'm gonna just collect all of those
functions into a single array using
the ...gather operator there
in the function signature.
And then what I'm gonna do is set
up a variable to hold the input
from the first function and then just
keep reusing that variable over and over.
So this needs to be
a machine making machine.
So I need to make a new function.
That will receive the first input,
which I'm just gonna call result.
>> Kyle Simpson: And then I'm gonna do
this first with just a regular for loop.
So I'll say for, and let's say
i = 0; i < fns.length; i++.
>> Kyle Simpson: And now, what I wanna
do is I want to call each function in
succession so I wanna say fns[i].
I wanna call it passing in result and
whatever that function returns
store that in results so
I can use it on the next loop iteration.
>> Kyle Simpson: At the end of this loop
I just simple need to return the result.
So this result here is the first input.
We could have called it input.
But I also think it looks
weird to name this one input.
>> Kyle Simpson: And so, I would have
preferred that one to be called result.
And so, rather than have to do
result equals input That's
an entirely valid way of doing it,
but there's really no reason to create
two separate variables when one can work.
So, my shortcut is to just
call that first one result.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now, compose does exactly
the same thing except it's gonna go in
a different order.
It's gonna take a list of functions And
make a new function.
Let me name this one, I'll name it
piped and I'll name this one composed.
It's gonna take a single result and
I could start writing myself
a foreloop for var i.
And I would start at fns.length- 1 and
I could go in the opposite
direction with my for loop.
But why don't I take a step back and
say that's awfully imperative.
Is there a more point free style
way of thinking about this?
And it turns out compose is really
just the same as calling pipe,
but with the reversed
order of items in a list.
All right.
So what if I just say return pipe and
the list of arguments that I give it,
I need to spread those out.
But I'm just gonna reverse
the functions list.
>> Kyle Simpson: So that's a more point
free style way of doing define and
composing.
You could have started with compose, and
defined pipe as the reverse of compose,
if that's the way you
wanted to go about it.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now, as we scroll down
here, we just are going to verify what's
happening with compose, is that when
we pass in the value 3 to f we're going
to get three divided by two because
we're calling the half function so
that would be one and
a half increment that to two and a half,
double that to five decrement it down to
four that's why we get the output of four.
Or, I call P and
I give it the value three.
We're gonna decrement first.
I'm sorry we're gonna halve first to 1.5.
Increment to 2.5,
double to 5, decrement to 4.
So that's why F of 3 and P of 3 are gonna
give the same it's cause' I listed these
arguments already in the reverse order.
Since we're going to cover
recursion later in our workshop,
I'm not going to devolve into much
of the detail about recursion, but
when you are running, for example,
this pipe any time you have a loop,
an imperative loop like that, that loop
is taking the place of a constant.
So the way you would model this is a
recursion is to say, I just need to start
out with a list of functions called
the first function on the list and
then pass that result to back in the pipe
with a shorter list of functions and
just keep going until your list
of functions is down to one.
It's the same thing as progressing
through the list of functions,
you can just reduce the list of functions.
So that's the general strategy
you'd use to do it with recursion.
We're gonna talk about list operations
later in the course as well.
With a list operation, a function
composition is basically a reduce.
So we could have done it with a reduce.